Access here: https://settler-support.vercel.app/
# What is this?
This is a web application to help administrate the board game "Settlers of Catan" with the "Cities and Knights" expansion. This app offers flexibility than mere dice permit. One of the two most important features in this app is the option of having fair dice; that is, you may choose to have numbers rolled in a way that is statistically fair, but still random. The other feature is real time support, which is explained more in detail later.
# Pages
## Real Time
This page opens the UI for the real time configuration of the app. Play is continuous from the first time Start is pressed, excluding Pauses. The game pauses automatically when a 7 is rolled, the barbarians attack, or during the roll after an Alchemist is played. The Alchemist button should be pressed when a player plays an Alchemist, and during the aforementioned Pause time, decide what the next roll is. The event die will reveal itself when the game resumes. Next Roll immediately advances the to the next turn; this is generally when all players have finished their actions, and given more time would simply wait for it to pass. The UI tracks ship movements, and will play an audio cue when it arrives at Catan. This page is the only page that is affected by the settings determined in the Settings page, as it is only here that the simplest UI is insufficient.

## Turn Based
This page opens the UI for the turn based configuration of the app. Roll Event is used when we only want the Event die to be rolled; that is, when after an Alchemist is played. Otherwise, simply press Roll Dice to roll for each player.
## Game Stats
This page displays the previous game's rolling statistics. Statistics are reset upon entering the Real Time or Turn Based pages, so caution is advised when navigating away from those pages. The x-axis of the upper graph is time, the label omitted for clarity. The lower graph displays the distribution of rolls throughout the game.
## Settings
This page allows the user to configure the app. The Turn Formula option is used to change the length of turns depending the the current Turn Count, t, for a Real Time game, and input should be in the some valid(parsable by script) expression in terms of t. The output of that expression is interpreted as being in seconds.
# Why play Real Time Catan?
The spirit of this gamemode is that it is everybody's turn at once. Single turn effects(for example, being unable to deactivate a knight after activating it) apply until the next dice roll, everyone can always build, and everyone can always trade with one another. It mitigates the common issue of players taking too long to make decisions. It introduces time management as a mechanic, and allows much more flexibility with construction and trading. There is very little waiting around, and games can be finished in around a quarter to a third of the usual time. There are generally not many issues with conflicts: whoever put down their building first is there first(you may have to implement placing items before paying for them), whoever played their (for example) resource monopoly first takes its effect first. You are encouraged not to grind people down for the optimal trades, as that will take too much time: however, it still rewards instinctively choosing good trades. It is recommended to play either with experienced players, or a longer time control with beginners, perhaps in the range of 2 minutes per turn in the later game, for obvious reasons.
